# API Authentication and JWT Handling

## Overview
This API provides user authentication and access control via JWT (JSON Web Tokens). It includes two types of tokens:

- **Access Token**: Valid for **1 minute**. Used for authenticating requests to protected routes.
- **Refresh Token**: Valid for **7 weeks**. Used to obtain a new access token when it expires.


## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: FastAPI
- **Database**: PostgreSQL
- **Authentication**: JWT (JSON Web Token)
- **Containerization**: Docker
- **ORM**: SQLAlchemy




## Authentication Routes

### `POST /auth/login`
- **Purpose**: Allows users to log in and obtain an **Access Token** and **Refresh Token**.
- **No JWT Validation**: This route is not protected by JWT validation.
  
#### Request Body:
```json
{
  "email": "user@example.com",
  "password": "userpassword"
}
```

### `POST /auth/signup`
- **Purpose**: Allows users to create account and obtain an  **Refresh Token**.
- **No JWT Validation**: This route is not protected by JWT validation.
  
#### Request Body:
```json
{
  "email": "user@example.com",
  "password": "userpassword",
  "username":"rawjat"
}
```


### 'JWT validation'
-**IMP**:  if any time  the access token expire u have to relogin or front end take care by itself

### `POST /user/employees`
- **Purpose**: Allows users to add detail of employee.
- **JWT Validation**: This route is protected by JWT validation.
  
#### Request Body:
```json
{ 
    "name":"m123ana",
    "age":34,
    "Mobile":21231233,
    "gender":"Male",
    "email":"lol@gma12312il.com"
}
```


### `POST /user/delete`
- **Purpose**: Allows users to delete the specific employee details.
- **JWT Validation**: This route is protected by JWT validation.
  
#### Request Body:
```json
{ 
    "ID":0   // this is  the unique id generated by postgresql 
}
```


- **Docker Compose**: just clone this repo and run docker-compose.yml 

###
Command is :  docker-compose.yml up --build




